TESTING.md, before:

# EuroQuiz - TESTING

![Project-image]()

Visit live deployed site: [EuroQuiz]()

* [Validation](#validator-testing)
* [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  * [Testing User Stories](#testing-user-stories)
  * [Full Testing](#full-testing)

## Validation



## Manual Testing

### Testing User Stories

__First Time Visitors__

| Goals | How are they achieved? |

__Returning Visitors__

|  Goals | How are they achieved? |

### Full Testing

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

### Solved Bugs

1. The game would sometimes crash when trying to load high scores if there were few or no entries in the list.
2. Names in the first place of the scoreboard would lose their first letter when loaded into the game.
3. Highscores would be reset when refreshing the page

### Unfixed Bugs

There are no known bugs currently in the program.

Commit message:

Add info about a bug to TESTING.md and delete documentation about deleted imports

TESTING.md, after:

# EuroQuiz - TESTING

![Project-image]()

Visit live deployed site: [EuroQuiz]()

* [Validation](#validator-testing)
* [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
  * [Testing User Stories](#testing-user-stories)
  * [Full Testing](#full-testing)

## Validation



## Manual Testing

### Testing User Stories

__First Time Visitors__

| Goals | How are they achieved? |

__Returning Visitors__

|  Goals | How are they achieved? |

### Full Testing

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

| Feature | Expected Outcome | Testing Performed | Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

### Solved Bugs

1. The game would sometimes crash when trying to load high scores if there were few or no entries in the list.
2. Names in the first place of the scoreboard would lose their first letter when loaded into the game.
3. Highscores would be reset when refreshing the page

### Unfixed Bugs

There is one annoying bug in this program, which lets impatient users input their answers while the program is still printing the questions. The program keeps the input buffered and handles it when the input prompt appears. I used a variety of solutions for this (some of which can be seen by looking at older deployments here at GitHub), but all had drawbacks that were ultimately worse than the original bug. For example, using getpass had a nearly ideal result except for the fact that it rendered all input invisible.

Proper solutions require multiple imports and dependencies which are system specific, and I'd need to make sure the dependencies come through to the deployed project at heroku. And some linux builds will completely reject any attempt to mess with inputs. There are so many factors that simply cannot be tested within the context of this small project made for a Code Institute assignment.

So, during my final mentoring session for the project, I was recommended to return the code to its original state and explain the nature of this bug here.
